                             HWREPORT 1.0

                         Visual Report Builder



        1. Introduction

	HWReport allows you create report forms for following using in
    applications, built with Harbour + HWGui.
        It provides intuitively clear way to design the desirable output form.

        You create a blank form and put there static text, vertical or
    horizontal lines, boxes, bitmaps and variables. You can define attributes
    for these items - font, line style, line width, alignment, move items to
    desired place, change its size.
        You can allocate different areas with special markers - document header,
    page header, list, page footer, document footer.
        You can write scripts on pure Clipper for opening database files,
    indexes, moving through records to get data for the report and assign these
    scripts to the form items and markers. You can declare variables, which may
    be used by all these scripts.

        Result of your work can be saved in two formats:

        - in *.rpt - text file, which includes description of a form and all
          its items and can be loaded and executed by any your application, built
          with Harbour + HWGui. One *.rpt file may include anu number of report
          forms ;
        - in *.prg file as a function - in this case this prg may be linked to
          your application and you can print the report using this function.

        2. Install

        To build HWReport from sources, you should have hwgui.lib and procmisc.lib .
   Probably, you will need to change HB_INSTALL variable in bldHWRep.bat and
   bldexam.bat . Then simply run bldHWRep.bat to build HWReport.exe and
   bldexam.bat - to build a small example application Example.exe.

        Files in this package:

        hwreport.prg
        opensave.prg
        printrpt.prg
        propert.prg
        repbuild.rc
        repbuild.h     -     HWReport source files

        bldHWRep.bat   -     bat file to build HWReport

        repexec.prg    -     source file, which must be linked to any 
                               application, which uses HwReport
        example.prg    -     source file of example application
        bldexam.bat    -     bat file to build example application
        example.rpt    -     example report file

        logo.bmp
        test.dbf       -     data for example application

        hwreport.txt   -     this file.

        3. Menu

        3.1. File

        - New:   Creates a new blank form. Currently there is only one format -
                 A4 Portrait ( 210x297mm ).

        - Open:  Opens existing report. You need to choose the format ( *.rpt -
                 report file or *.prg - program source ), file and write the
                 report name ( for *.rpt file ) or function name ( for *.prg 
                 file ).

        - Close: Closes current report form.

        - Save:  Saves current report.

        - Save as: Saves current report in other file or with other name, other
                 format.

        - Print static: Print report without variables.

        - Print full: Print full report. All databases should be accessible
                 for this printing works right.

        3.2. Items
  
          This submenu becomes accessible after you create new or open existing
    report. You choose the item you want - and when you move mouse over the
    form, its cursor changes to cross and you can place the item where you
    need clicking the right mouse button. This item becomes selected and you
    move it, resize, delete or set its attributes by double clicking on it.
          With the same manner you can place the marker. Currently supported
    types of markers are:
          - Page Header: it may be needed, if you have multipage report, this 
    header will be printed in the beginning of every page, with the exception
    of a first page, where it is printed where it is placed in the form. The
    'End of Page Header' marker does't exist, because 'Start Line' marker serves
    as the end of Page Header.
   
          - Start Line: it is needed, when you have list of lines and it is
    unknown at design time, how much lines. A bit complex explanation :), but
    I hope, that you understand, what I mean.
    It MUST PRESENT, if you have 'Page Header' marker.

          - End Line: indicates the end of a line ( 'Start Line' was a beginning ).
    It MUST PRESENT, if you have 'Start Line' marker.

          - Page Footer: it may be needed, if you have multipage report, this 
    footer will be printed in the end of every page.

          - End of Page Footer: indicates the end of Page Footer.
    It MUST PRESENT, if you have 'Page Footer' marker.

          - Document Footer: the items after it will be printed at the end
    of a report. In case of multipage report - only at the last page.

    One of markers 'Page Footer' or 'Document Footer' MUST PRESENT, if you
    have 'Start Line' marker.

        If some of markers, which must present, are absent, you'll get a warning
    while attempt to print it - and printing will not be done.

        3.3. Options

        - Form Options: Here you can define variables for following using in 
                 scripts and assign them initial values. The syntax is the 
                 same, as in Clipper's Local or Private statement with the
                 only difference, that you don't need to write 'Local' or
                 'Private' keyword.
                       
        - Preview: Switch on/off preview mode.

        - Mouse limit: I understand that it isn't good name for this menu item,
                 but I didn't invent other. When this item is On ( default ),
                 you can't move an item in the form less than 2 pixels - it is
                 made to prevent accidental moving of an item if your mouse
                 isn't very precise. You can do precise move using the keyboard.

        4. Item's properties

        Double clicking on any item, you call dialog box, where you can set/get
        item's attributes. 

        For graphic objects this is line type and width.

        For bitmaps - *.bmp file and size ( percentage of original ).

        For text - caption, alignment, font and type - static or variable. If
   the type is variable, in 'Caption' field you should write Clipper's
   expression, which returns string representation of this variable. For both
   static and variable type you can write script, which will be executed before
   this item printing.

        For Start Line (SL) and End Line (EL) markers you can define a script.
   In case of SL this script will be executed one time, before the printing
   of a list - so, it's a good place to set, for example, first record of the
   records set, which should be printed. In case of EL this script will be
   executed each time, where the line of a list is printed. Here should be
   placed code for moving to the next record and checking of a list end - if
   you are reached last line in the list, you should set predefined variable
   'lLastCycle' to .T. .The simplest example is:
        lLastCycle := Eof()

        5. Printing from application

        After you create the report form, you can print it from your application.

        If the report is in *.rpt file, you need open it with the hwg_OpenReport()
   function and then print with hwg_PrintReport():

         IF hwg_OpenReport( fileName, reportName ) 
            hwg_PrintReport( printerName )
         ENDIF        

   If you omit the printerName parameter, you will get standard dialog box for
   choosing printer. If you pass empty string ( hwg_PrintReport( "" ) ), program
   will print to the default printer. And, at least, if you pass real printer
   name, defined in your system, it will be used.

        If the report is in prg file, linked to your application, you need simply
   call the function, where the the report is saved and then PrintReport():

        MyReport()
        hwg_PrintReport( printerName )

 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
 * Copyright 2001 Alexander S.Kresin <alex@belacy.belgorod.su>
 * www - http://www.geocities.com/alkresin/
